[MUSIC]
Hi, I'm Paul Newman.
I'm CTO and founder of Oxbotica, and
Professor of Information Engineering
at the University of Oxford.
So I can remember the day that I got
interested in self-driving vehicles and
autonomy, and it was actually in Sydney.
And I was talking to a PhD student,
I'd just started my PhD,
and he introduced this problem
called the SLAM problem.
So can a vehicle figure out where it is in
the world without having been given a map,
and can it build a map itself?
And I knew then that was the mother
of all problems I wanted to work on.
So I can remember, and
it was the 19th of March 1996,
I really discovered that
there was a big problem here.
And since then, it's never got old.
We know how to solve those problems now,
but
I was always an engineer
trying to build things.
And then I discovered that the most
exciting way to build things was
a combination of software and
mechanical things, and
that's almost by definition robotics,
then I was in heaven.
So I've never really lost that from
probably about nine, when I started
trying to program very basic computers
through to what I do everyday now.
It's a thrill that's never left me.
Okay, so what do we do here at Oxbotica?
Well, we build the software that
makes autonomous vehicles autonomous.
We go from the lowest level sensors
all the way up, through the stack,
through planning,
through localization, through control,
through perception up to
fleet management systems.
So the whole software environment that
makes fleets of vehicles autonomous
is what we build and we develop.
Now, down at the university I'm the
Director of the Autorobotics Institute,
I've got great life there too.
So there I work on what are the hard,
hard problems of autonomy and
robotics that are perhaps
ten years down the line?
What are those really sort of nascent
research questions of machines and
intelligence and
machine learning that we would want in our
vehicles in the five to ten-year period?
So I've got a very privileged life.
So why do I care about
self-driving cars so much?
Because transport's dumb,
it's broken at the moment.
80% of all accidents in the road
are caused by inattention.
The one thing that machines
won't do is get bored.
So we don't deal with that in any way.
The way in which we drive is inefficient.
As we get older, as we get more infirm,
the one thing we need is to stay
in contact with our species.
And if we say, yes, I'm sorry,
you're eyesight's fading, can't drive.
If you had an epileptic fit,
you can't drive.
So the whole edifice of how we
drive ourselves and move our atoms,
be they human atoms or
goods atoms, is just nuts.
It's derived from horses and carts.
We wouldn't do that if we had our
technology now, so that's nuts.
And software and
algorithms are going to change that.
I'm absolutely sure that we'll
have more atoms move better and
safer, because of AV technology.
So there's a question about
should the vehicles themselves be
independently smart or
should they leverage smart infrastructure?
So what's smart infrastructure?
A traffic light that says, I'm about
to turn red, and this is my location.
Or a roundabout, a rotary, that says,
this is where the vehicles are,
your slot's coming up.
There's any number of ways we could
think about instrumenting our cities.
So my view is that the vehicles
themselves need to be smart
enough to deal without
a dependency on infrastructure.
And if smart infrastructure is provided,
then sure, you can use it,
if you can trust it.
And there's questions about cybersecurity,
and that's throughout the whole stack,
really, the cybersecurity question.
So my view is the vehicle itself
must be smart enough to deal,
just like you are as a driver.
You can look at traffic lights and you can
look at lane boundaries, and you don't
need to be told by the car in front that
there's a car in front, you can see it.
Because if that
infrastructure is taken away,
you still want to be able to
have an autonomous vehicle.
It could be augmented by infrastructure,
but
I believe you shouldn't
be dependent on it.
because if you solve that problem,
then you really do have all of
transport in any place in grasp.
Might take some time, but
you're in that trajectory.
And you're not dependent on
expensive bespoken infrastructure.
And my view of expensive,
bespoke infrastructure for
self-driving cars is called city.
[MUSIC]